Insert your name here
Tutor’s name here
Your unit name here
Date of submission here
The Ones Who Walk Away From Omelas: Capitalism Entrenches Omelas Happiness
Introduction 
If there is a way recollection of events would suffice in any short story, that would be a society described in terms of an idyllic community. However, for a successful representation of capitalism, the conception of the City of Omelas, as captured in “The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas” by Ursula Le Guin, would fit the context. For a long, there have been contrasting commentaries on the meaning of capitalism and, perhaps, how Omelas is aligned to this school of thought. Anyone reading the text would agree that it is a case of a few sacrificing for the majority to enjoy. Put succinctly, and it is a history of all the hitherto modeled society and class struggles. Slaves and freemen, plebian and patrician, serf and load, journeyman and guild master, oppressed, and the oppressor is standing in constant disagreement with one another. It is this foundation that the author laid The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas. Capitalism in this text can be equated to a history where a few are castigated in the process of fighting in a revolutionary war that, by large, is a common ruin of the contending classes of people for others to be happy. It could be a case of a utopian society. The analysis finds that the boy’s fate and enslavement was orchestrated by class divisions and exploitation reminiscent of a capitalist economy.
The child's misfortunes was a scapegoat to attain capitalistic ideologies. The Marxist's lens for interpreting capitalism is apportioning one or more people into troubles through scapegoating so that others can enjoy pleasure and happiness. The young boy undergoes what would classify as the dilemma of the socially conscious to remind readers of two steps society takes to advance their desires. The first one is exploitation and the second one is a scapegoat. The two stages are practiced upon the people of Omelas. For the City to remain happy, the child must suffer as a scapegoat. He is denied the freedom to allow the City to enjoy its liberty. The liberation is represented in the text in expressions such as "a faint cheerful sweetness of the air that from time to time trembled and gathered together and broke out in the great, joyous clanging of the bells” (Le Guin 1). There are two emerging points of concern from the quote to the conception of capitalism and scapegoating. Firstly, people were ready to walk away from Omelas to depict that justice for the City was never going to be realized. Secondly, the strength of capitalism was overshadowing rational thinking among the masses and that the way to defeat the system was to endure it until death. 
Capitalism in Omelas is attained through vulnerability, ignorance, and oppression. The City is practically enjoying happiness not because they made the theory of communism practicable but, by making the boy vulnerability. These gaps have prevented them from seeing that one person has sacrificed for happiness. The ignorance is so entrenched that living without a king seemed another layer of happiness among the people. We draw that logic of reason from the text’s assertion that “…they all understand that their happiness depends wholly on this child’s abominable misery” (Le Guin 3). According to the quote, capitalism is made possible because there is one person having limits to people’s vulnerability but still refusing to learn and empathize and save the generation. Differently, vulnerable member of the society committed to social causes absorbs the challenges to develop a sense of knowledge, fight, and ideas to save the population. While the boy’s suffering is because of vulnerability, the majority in the City are ignorant or, to say the least, ignores that their happiness is the boy's susceptibility. The quote allows readers to critique the people’s lack of actions to save the Omelas. They have chosen to watch the miserable boy decay to death to their happiness. Capitalism, therefore, is the people's ignorance subsisting in Omelas as they watch with minimal sympathy then return to their daily activities with little remorse to the boy. As a consequence, we are facing a case of capitalism perpetuated through ignorance and invulnerability, resulting in the loss of humanity within Omelas.
The Utopian aspect of Omelas justifies the flows of capitalism despite being portrayed as a perfect place to stay. Scrutiny into what the author writes is that we are witnessing a city where a domain is created to erase absolute perfection. However, where there are cases of people being perfect, that comes with a price or evil. The Utopian aspect and capitalism intertwine when the author writes that “Omelas sounds in my words like a city in a fairy tale, long ago and far away, once upon a time.” (Le Guin 2). The quote suggests a reason why the people of Omelas wanted to walk away but were still submerged in the unforeseen future. No one believed in social change except for the boy sacrificed. Either way, it was a reflection of utopianism well-practiced as capitalism because it blends the conception of politics, the culture of the people, proletariats, and consumerism. The bourgeoisie is interested in sacrificing the boy while the proletariats are blinded by the little happiness rather than fighting to bring social change. People in support of the bourgeoisie are interpreting idealism from a wrong perspective or as a false pretense to the City’s realities. The teller of the story adds that “…in a basement under one of the beautiful public buildings of Omelas, or perhaps in the cellar of one of its spacious private homes, there is a room. It has one locked door, and no window.” (Le Guin 4). The fact that the author sees the City as a fairy tale means the environment and the people can only have plausible contentment. The underground of a seemingly beautiful and happy city is a malnourished and miserable boy. 
Conclusion 
The analysis finds that the conception of capitalism in The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas is beyond someone undergoing pain and suffering for others to experience joy and happiness. It is an orchestrated capitalism the people of Omelas have disguised as communist society at the expense of a few. The equality, freedom, happiness are sublimed by the boy's continued malnutrition and misery to justify the subtle classism between the citizen and the child. The child projected in the story informs the conception of capitalism on the bare minimum. However, he is acting as an agent of class division. The other emerging theme is that the higher class has been prevented from overthrowing rulers and society of workers because of a fear that they are needed for the survival of capitalism. If one implements the ideologies of capitalism in the short story, it would be easy to predict why the people of Omelas did not dispose of the child. The answer ithat would be a society described in terms of an idyllic community. However, for a successful representation of capitalism, the conception of the City of Omelas, as captured in “The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas” by Ursula Le Guin, would fit the context. For a long, there have been contrasting commentaries on the meaning of capitalism and, perhaps, how Omelas is aligned to this school of thought. Anyone reading the text would agree that it is a case of a few sacrificing for the majority to enjoy. Put succinctly, and it is a history of all the hitherto modeled society and class struggles. Slaves and freemen, plebian and patrician, serf and load, journeyman and guild master, oppressed, and the oppressor is standing in constant disagreement with one another. It is this foundation that the author laid The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas. Capitalism in this text can be equated to a history where a few are castigated in the process of fighting in a revolutionary war that, by large, is a common ruin of the contending classes of people for others to be happy. It could be a case of a utopian society. The analysis finds that the boy’s fate and enslavement was orchestrated by class divisions and exploitation reminiscent of a capitalist economy.
The child's misfortunes was a scapegoat to attain capitalistic ideologies. The Marxist's lens for interpreting capitalism is apportioning one or more people into troubles through scapegoating so that others can enjoy pleasure and happiness. The young boy undergoes what would classify as the dilemma of the socially conscious to remind readers of two steps society takes to advance their desires. The first one is exploitation and the second one is a scapegoat. The two stages are practiced upon the people of Omelas. For the City to remain happy, the child must suffer as a scapegoat. He is denied the freedom to allow the City to enjoy its liberty. The liberation is represented in the text in expressions such as "a faint cheerful sweetness of the air that from time to time trembled and gathered together and broke out in the great, joyous clanging of the bells” (Le Guin 1). There are two emerging points of concern from the quote to the conception of capitalism and scapegoating. Firstly, people were ready to walk away from Omelas to depict that justice for the City was never going to be realized. Secondly, the strength of capitalism was overshadowing rational thinking among the masses and that the way to defeat the system was to endure it until death. 
Capitalism in Omelas is attained through vulnerability, ignorance, and oppression. The City is practically enjoying happiness not because they made the theory of communism practicable but, by making the boy vulnerability. These gaps have prevented them from seeing that one person has sacrificed for happiness. The ignorance is so entrenched that living without a king seemed another layer of happiness among the people. We draw that logic of reason from the text’s assertion that “…they all understand that their happiness depends wholly on this child’s abominable misery” (Le Guin 3). According to the quote, capitalism is made possible because there is one person having limits to people’s vulnerability but still refusing to learn and empathize and save the generation. Differently, vulnerable member of the society committed to social causes absorbs the challenges to develop a sense of knowledge, fight, and ideas to save the population. While the boy’s suffering is because of vulnerability, the majority in the City are ignorant or, to say the least, ignores that their happiness is the boy's susceptibility. The quote allows readers to critique the people’s lack of actions to save the Omelas. They have chosen to watch the miserable boy decay to death to their happiness. Capitalism, therefore, is the people's ignorance subsisting in Omelas as they watch with minimal sympathy then return to their daily activities with little remorse to the boy. As a consequence, we are facing a case of capitalism perpetuated through ignorance and invulnerability, resulting in the loss of humanity within Omelas.
The Utopian aspect of Omelas justifies the flows of capitalism despite being portrayed as a perfect place to stay. Scrutiny into what the author writes is that we are witnessing a city where a domain is created to erase absolute perfection. However, where there are cases of people being perfect, that comes with a price or evil. The Utopian aspect and capitalism intertwine when the author writes that “Omelas sounds in my words like a city in a fairy tale, long ago and far away, once upon a time.” (Le Guin 2). The quote suggests a reason why the people of Omelas wanted to walk away but were still submerged in the unforeseen future. No one believed in social change except for the boy sacrificed. Either way, it was a reflection of utopianism well-practiced as capitalism because it blends the conception of politics, the culture of the people, proletariats, and consumerism. The bourgeoisie is interested in sacrificing the boy while the proletariats are blinded by the little happiness rather than fighting to bring social change. People in support of the bourgeoisie are interpreting idealism from a wrong perspective or as a false pretense to the City’s realities. The teller of the story adds that “…in a basement under one of the beautiful public buildings of Omelas, or perhaps in the cellar of one of its spacious private homes, there is a room. It has one locked door, and no window.” (Le Guin 4). The fact that the author sees the City as a fairy tale means the environment and the people can only have plausible contentment. The underground of a seemingly beautiful and happy city is a malnourished and miserable boy. 
Conclusion 
The analysis finds that the conception of capitalism in The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas is beyond someone undergoing pain and suffering for others to experience joy and happiness. It is an orchestrated capitalism the people of Omelas have disguised as communist society at the expense of a few. The equality, freedom, happiness are sublimed by the boy's continued malnutrition and misery to justify the subtle classism between the citizen and the child. The child projected in the story informs the conception of capitalism on the bare minimum. However, he is acting as an agent of class division. The other emerging theme is that the higher class has been prevented from overthrowing rulers and society of workers because of a fear that they are needed for the survival of capitalism. If one implements the ideologies of capitalism in the short story, it would be easy to predict why the people of Omelas did not dispose of the child. The answer is that overthrowing that boy would translate to overthrowing their joy, status quo, and happiness. 
s that overthrowing that boy would translate to overthrowing their joy, status quo, and happiness. 





Work Cited
Le Guin, Ursula K. "The ones who walk away from Omelas." HarperCollins, (1975).

